This is an incomplete temporary guide to get an elevator installed and running, since the full controller manual has not yet been written.

Installation
============

1. Build hoistway - you can use any nodes you want, but the inside needs to be at least 2m wide by 3m deep. Leave at least 1m below and above the terminal landings free.
2. Make openings for doors - door openings go in the narrow (2m wide) side, and should be 2m wide and 3m tall.
3. Place car - stand in front of the door opening on the lowest level, facing into the hoistway, and place the car just behind where the bottom left of the door will be. If done properly, it should end up inside the hoistway and level with the bottom floor.
3a. If you need to remove the car at some point, sneak+punch the front bottom left (viewed from outside - the node with the keyswitches) and say yes when prompted.
4. Place doors in each opening - place them on the floor in the bottom left of the doorway. They should be very close to the car doors (no gaps of 1m or larger).
4a. If you need to remove the hoistway doors at some point, dig the lower left (viewed from the outside) corner.
5. Somewhere above the hoistway, place the hoist machine. It must be placed such that the gearbox (the part that spawns in the spot you clicked) is directly above the car. It must be high enough to still be above the car at the highest landing, but no more than 500m above the car.
6. Somewhere (anywhere), place the controller.
7. Place the drive on the right side (viewed from the front) of the controller, aligned with the top. The two conduits coming from the left side of the drive should appear to be connected to the upper half of the right side of the controller.
8. Point at the controller and make a note of the ID number that appears.
9. Open the hoist machine's form and enter the car ID from the previous step when prompted. After saving, the infotext should indicate that it found the car.
10. Punch the controller to open the door, then open its form. The setup wizard should appear. Click Next.
11. Group operation is not yet supported, so click Simplex.
12. Use the add/edit/remove/move buttons as needed so that the displayed floor layout matches your building. The height refers to the distance from floor level at the current floor to floor level at the next floor above (not used at the highest floor), while the floor name is displayed on the position indicators and can be up to 3 of any printable ASCII characters.
13. When the floor layout matches your building, click Done.
14. Confirm that the display shows "Normal Operation" in the top left and that the NORMAL OPERATION LED is lit. If it immediately shows "Fault", the drive may not be in the proper position. If you want to prevent the doors from opening in the next step so that nobody can enter the elevator, turn the TEST switch on. The display should show "Test Mode" and the NORMAL OPERATION LED will turn off.
15. Using the buttons in the CAR column on the right side of the screen, send the car to each floor, one at a time, and verify that it stops at the proper location.
16. Place any external PI, lanterns, or call buttons you want to use. At least one call button on each landing is recommended. Enter the car ID (and landing number, if requested - note that the landing numbers start at 1 for the lowest landing, and may not reflect user-defined floor names) into each device. The PIs may show "--" until the next time the car moves.
17. If fire service is desired, place a phase 1 keyswitch in a suitable location and enter the car ID. Use of more than one phase 1 keyswitch on the same elevator may cause strange results and is not recommended.
18. At the controller, click "Edit Parameters" and set, at a minimum, Contract Speed (the speed the elevator moves at during normal operation) and Main Landing (the landing the elevator will recall to in fire service phase 1, may not match user-defined floor names), then click Save.
19. If test mode was enabled in step 14, the call buttons will not yet operate. Disable test mode (turn the TEST switch on the controller off) to return to normal operation.

Quick guide to controls
=======================

In controller cabinet:
RUN/STOP: Elevator is not allowed to move when in the STOP position and the display will change to read "Emergency Stop".
CAPTURE: When on, all hall calls are canceled and new hall calls cannot be established, however the car will still service car calls and cycle its doors normally. When no car calls are present and the doors are closed, the display will change to read "Captured".
TEST: When on, all hall calls are canceled, new hall calls cannot be established, and the doors will not open, however the car will still service car calls (without opening the doors). The display will read "Test Mode".
INSPECT/NORMAL: When in the INSPECT position and the doors are closed, the UP and DOWN buttons can be used to move the car at a reduced speed in increments of 1m. The display will read "Machine Room Inspection".

On car top:
INSPECT/RUN: When in the INSPECT position and the doors are closed, the UP and DOWN buttons can be used to move the car at a reduced speed in increments of 1m. The controller display will read "Car Top Inspection".

In key switch panel underneath COP:
FIRE SVC: Activates fire service phase 2. When in the ON position, the door no longer opens or closes automatically, all hall calls are canceled, and new hall calls cannot be established. The door can instead be moved using the door open and close buttons (in the COP). The call cancel button in the COP is functional in this mode. The controller display will read "Fire Service Phase 2". When in the HOLD position, no calls can be registered and the doors cannot be closed. The controller display will read "Fire Service Phase 2 Hold".
IND SVC: Activates independent service. When in the ON position, all hall calls are canceled and new hall calls cannot be established. The door will not close automatically, however the door close button can be used to close the door. The call cancel button is functional in this mode. The controller display will read "Independent Service".
CAR LIGHT: No function at this time.
CAR FAN: No function at this time.

Controller status messages
==========================

Normal Operation: No special modes or faults are present. The elevator is operating normally.
Position Sync - Floor: The elevator has just left an inspection mode or the stop switch was just turned to RUN. The elevator is moving to the nearest floor.
Position Sync - Terminal: The floor table was modified. The elevator is moving to the bottom floor in order to reset its position.
Fault: The elevator cannot run due to a fault.
Emergency Stop: The RUN/STOP switch in the controller cabinet is in the STOP position. The elevator is unable to move.
Machine Room Inspection: The INSPECT/NORMAL switch in the controller cabinet is in the INSPECT position. The elevator can be moved in increments of 1m at reduced speed by using the UP and DOWN buttons in the controller cabinet.
Car Top Inspection: The INSPECT/RUN switch on top of the car is in the INSPECT position. The elevator can be moved in increments of 1m at reduced speed by using the UP and DOWN buttons on top of the car.
Inspection Conflict: The INSPECT/NORMAL switch in the controller cabinet and the INSPECT/RUN switch on the car top are both in the INSPECT position at the same time. The elevator is unable to move.
Fire Service - Phase 1: The elevator has been recalled to the main landing due to the fire recall switch being in the ON position.
Fire Service - Phase 2: The elevator is operating in fire service phase 2 due to the in-car fire service switch being in the ON position (see FIRE SVC in the controls section).
Fire Service - Phase 2 Hold: The elevator is being held at a floor by the in-car fire service switch being in the HOLD position (see FIRE SVC in the controls section).
Independent Service: The elevator is operating in independent service (see IND SVC in the controls section).
Captured: The CAPTURE switch in the controller cabinet is turned on, no calls are present, and the doors are closed. Hall calls cannot be established, but car calls will be served normally (see CAPTURE in the controls section).
Test Mode: The TEST switch in the controller cabinet is turned on. Hall calls cannot be established. Car calls will be serviced, but the doors will remain closed (see TEST in the controls section).
